head command will print firt 10 lines of data inside file
ex: head linux.txt
if u want to read only first 5 lines then u use following command
ex: head -5 linux.txt
tail command will print last 10 lines of data inside file
ex:tail linux.txt
if u want to read only last 5 lines then u use following command
ex: tail -5 linux.txt
cat command will print entire data inside file
ex: cat linux.txt
echo command will dispays a some text inside the file
echo hello >file.txt --here "hello" text will be printed inside file.txt
cat file1.txt file2.txt file3.txt - we can display multiple files data by represent like this way
cat file1.txt fie2.txt file3.txt >all.txt
cat all.txt - here all files data will stored in the single file all.txt
cat >file5.txt - this means we are using cat command to create file5.txt file and write content
more allows only forward navigation through the file.
less allows both forward and backward navigation.
less has additional features like searching and jumping to specific lines or sections in the file, which more lacks.
uptime command - this command shows uptime of our system
free command -Display amount of free and used memory in the system.
df command - report file system disk space usage
lsblk - list block devices
fdisk - manipulate disk partition table
top - displays linux processes.
htop - interactive process viewer
Nano - This Command is used for text editing inside text file from terminal itself.
Ex: Nano file_name
i — Enter Insert Mode before the cursor.
a — Enter Insert Mode after the cursor.
o — Open a new line below the current line and enter Insert Mode.
O — Open a new line above the current line and enter Insert Mode.
Esc — Exit Insert or Visual Mode and return to Normal Mode.
:w — Save the file.
:q — Quit Vim.
:wq or :x — Save the file and quit Vim.
:q! — Quit without saving changes.
:e filename — Open a different file.
:r filename — Read a file into the current buffer.
errorscoming
grep Command
The grep command searches for patterns within files. It is often used to search through text and log files for specific patterns.
syntax: grep [options] [pattern] [filename]
ex1: grep "errorscoming" logfile.txt - Search for the pattern error in a file named logfile.txt:
This will display all lines in logfile.txt containing the word errorscoming.
ex2: Search for the pattern errorscoming recursively in the directory /var/log:- grep -r "error" /var/log  - -r: Recursively searches through directories and subdirectories.
ex3:Search for a pattern in files and display line numbers: grep -n "errorscoming" logfile.txt
-n: Shows line numbers along with matching lines.
ex4:Search for lines not containing the pattern warning: grep -v "warning" logfile.txt --v: Inverts the match, displaying lines that do not contain the pattern.
locate command - locate the file name in system faster than find
ex: locate filename
ex2:locate "*.log" - locating files with .log extensions
ex3: locate "*.txt" 
sed (stream editor) command is used for replacement text inside file
ex: sed -i "s/original_text/replacement_text/" filename.
ex1: sed -i "s/errors/errorscoming/" "workingwithfilecontent.txt" - here replacing errors with errorscoming text in file.
ls -l filename - willget who have file permission like owner  ,group owner, size, last modified file time
What is the Linux Kernel?
The Linux kernel is the central part of the operating system that interacts directly with the hardware of a computer. It handles low-level tasks such as managing CPU, memory, and peripheral devices, and provides services for applications and system processes.
File Merge - Merging MUltiple text files into single text file using cat command
cat file1.txt file2.txt > file3.txt -- use single ">" if you want overwritten the data to this file. if we want add the data to existing file use double ">>" as below.
cat file1.txt file2.txt >> file3.txt.
paste command - this command will print data line by line in one file take first line,in second line take first line and print in single line.
paste -d "," file5.txt file6.txt > merge.txt  - d means delimiter
--------------------------
Linux
created by Linus Torvalds in 1991
Many Linux Distributions was there
1. Ubuntu
2. Debian
3. Kali Linux
4. Red hat

Linux Full Form - Lovable intellect not using xp

Most popular linux distribution was -Ubuntu
there are 3 editions in Ubuntu 
1.desktop
2.server
3.core

cd - change directory
pwd- current working directory
ls - list of directories
ls -l - lists long format
ls -a - lists all files
ls -lah 
mkdir - create a directory
Creating parent directory 
mkdir -p Reddy/kumar/Narendra
rmdir - removing empty directory
removing parent directory
rmdir -p Reddy/kumar/Narendra
file file_name - will get about file
creating a file
touch file_name
remove files or directories using rm
1)rm file1.txt
2)rm -i file1.txt file2.txt
3)removing directory using rm -rf directory_name
copy-cp
1)cp source destination
  a) cp file1.txt file1cp.txt  - same folder
  b) cp file1.txt "/home/reddy/Documents/  - different filder if u want to copy
  
move -mv - moving and renaming a filee
1) mv file1.txt file2.txt
   mv file1.txt /home/Documents/file3.txt  - moving a file to some other folder and renaming

  
